Rio Car Beta Release 24-July-2002
Version 2.00-beta13

Copyright (c) SONICblue, Inc. 2002


* Notes

This is a Rio Car beta release.  BY DEFINITION, BETA SOFTWARE MAY NOT
PERFORM AS ADVERTISED.  It may not be stable.  It may eat your music
and spoil your day in any number of ways.  Please do not install this
release unless you understand these important points.

Note that 2.00-beta12 was an internal release.  Its release notes have
been rolled into this document.


* General

Please submit bugs to the Bug Reports forum at the empeg BBS
(http://empeg.comms.net).  Be sure to check that the bug has not already
been discussed.


* Installation

Download either the consumer or developer images and emplode (or emptool)
from the empeg-car upgrades site.

You should install the new emplode or emptool before installing this
release. If you fail to do so your empeg-car unit may not function and it
will be necessary to apply the upgrade again using the correct version of
empegUpgrade or upgclient.

We strongly recommend completely de-installing the previous emplode before
installing the new one, which installs into a different location.

Connect your computer to your empeg car using the supplied serial cable.
Switch off your player at the wall or unplug the IEC cable from the brick
power supply.

The upgrade can be installed by serial only.  Run the Upgrade Wizard and
either enter or browse for the upgrade file. Click Next and select the
serial port that your unit is connected to. Click Next again.

When instructed to do so by the upgrade program re-apply power to your
player by switching it on at the wall or connecting the IEC cable and brick
power supply. If you have an all-in-one power supply then switch it on at
the wall if possible or plug into the wall. The upgrade should then be
applied. If it fails, try again.


* What's New Since 2.00-beta11 - Player

In Seek Tool mode, left/right and rotary turn now perform their normal
functions.  To activate the seek tool functions press the rotary control:
the rotary turn now seeks within the track and left/right skip to the
previous/next phrase.  Pressing the rotary control again switches back
to normal mode.

Following considerable debate on the BBS and elsewhere, the player's
INSERT functionality has been renamed to ENQUEUE. There is an all-new INSERT
mode, in which added songs are always added immediately after the current
song, even if subsequent songs were enqueued or inserted. Those of you who
didn't like the way the old INSERT worked should try the new INSERT; those
of you  who liked the old INSERT should now use ENQUEUE. The new INSERT mode
is available from the long-press-on-playlist-menu menu, and as one of the
search window modes (on the Select Mode button).

Developers: when telling the player what to play by supplying FID numbers
over the serial port, you can now select whether the new FID replaces the
current content (as before), or is appended (follow the FID with "+"), or
Enqueued (follow it with "-"), or Inserted ("!").

FIQ's are now correctly disabled when appropriate, hopefully solving some
issues whereby the UI would hang for periods of approximately 19 minutes
(fix supplied by Mark Lord - thanks).

The player now supports a partitioning scheme for the fids directory, which
should improve performance when rebuilding the database.  The partitioning
works by e.g. FID 34da0 is placed in (e.g.) /driveN/fids/_00034/da0,
where N is 0 or 1, according to the player's normal rules.  Essentially,
the number (in hex) is zero-padded to 8 characters (xxxxxyyy) and saved
as _xxxxx/yyy.

Note that the player won't create directories of this form.  A future version
of the player will.  This code was partially back-ported, in order to
allow v2.0 betas to work correctly on players which had music added by v2.1
player code.


Fixed: Player sometimes reverts to previous power-on playlist postion. (#1672)

Fixed: Playlist isn't reshuffled at "End of Playlist" (#1680)

Fixed: Single-letter menus not highlighted (#1735)

Fixed: Clock display available despite lack of clock (#1741)

Fixed: Stalk ignores "Favorite Visuals" mode (#1753)

Fixed: flash-empeg.c busy-waits (#1756) (Thanks Mark)

Fixed: "Failed to restart player" errors, 2.0b11 (#1762)

Fixed: Poweroff submenu reboots (#1768)

Fixed: Visual Mode Forced (#1769)

Fixed: Alpha keys don't work for selecting timezones (#1770)

Fixed: Visuals "by name" not alpha sorted (#1772)

Fixed: Player boots into transient info mode (#1777)

Fixed: February spelled wrong in the Clock visuals (#1782)

Fixed: Currently active Wendy filter does not survive a reboot (#1787)

Fixed: Volume increments change when limits are reached. (#1793)

Fixed: Can't use ctime in custom shuffles (#1796)

Fixed: Equalizer channel lock behavior strange (#1799)

Fixed: Auto change visuals "on timeout" gets forgotten after reboot (#1802)


* What's New Since 2.00-beta11 - Emplode

Fixed: Misbehaving hush settings in Emplode (#1773)

Fixed: Repeating list of visuals in Fav Vis window (#1764)

Fixed: Emplode misinterprets ID3v2 track info at import (#1765)

Fixed: strtol() being used bogusly (#1776)

Fixed: Using the favourite visual dialog causes config.ini to grow (#1780)

Fixed: Dropping a folder onto emplode with the same name as a track corrupts
the FIDs (#1790)

Fixed: Importing a folder into a playlist oddity (#1792)

Fixed: Emplode erroneously treats tunes as playlists when they have tracks
dropped on, and they're at the bottom of the list view.

Fixed: Make the "playlist subset" controls slightly more intelligent.

Fixed: Performance enhancements in the track properties dialog box,
particularly in the Search Results window.

Fixed: Crash when using Alt+3 properties dialog and pressing OK.

Fixed: Network configuration dialog still available when connected by network.
Causes problems on reboot.

Fixed: Replacing a tune isn't updating the list control properly, if the tags
are different.

Fixed: Replacing a tune in the soup views deletes the track.  Similarly in
the search results.

Fixed: Some soup entries have no children, they should have.


* What's New Since 2.00-beta11 - Emptool

Fixed: emptool mishandles dynamic data (#1795)


Rob Voisey 2002/07/24 18:08 +0000 (GMT)
rvoisey@sonicblue.com
