Rio Car Release 10-Jul-2004
Version 2.01

Copyright (c) DNNA (UK) Ltd., 2004


* Notes

This is a new stable release of the car-player software, and users of
v1.03 and of earlier beta versions are encouraged to upgrade. Users of
v2.00 should not upgrade unless the single new feature -- support for
RAM upgrades -- is required.


* General

Please submit bugs to the Bug Reports forum at the Unofficial Empeg
BBS (http://empegbbs.com).  Be sure to check that the bug has not
already been discussed.


* Installation

Download either the consumer or developer images and emplode (or emptool
for Linux users) from the empeg-car upgrades site.

(There is no Emplode or Emptool v2.01; you should use the v2.00 versions.
If you already have v2.00 of Emplode or Emptool installed, you can skip
ahead to the firmware installation.)

If upgrading from v1.xx or from a beta release of v2, you should
install the new emplode or emptool before installing this release. If
you fail to do so your empeg-car unit may not function and it will be
necessary to apply the upgrade again using the correct version of
empegUpgrade or upgclient.

We recommend completely de-installing the previous emplode before
installing the new one.

The USB driver has been moved out of the emplode setup program since just
placing it in the drivers directory wasn't advisable on modern operating
systems. In order to improve reliability on Windows XP there is now a new
USB driver specifically for Windows XP called RIOXDRV.SYS. Users of
earlier operating systems (Windows 98, Windows 98SE, Windows ME and
Windows 2000) should continue to use the RIOHD.SYS driver. Anyone who is
still using the EMPEGCAR.SYS driver should consider switching to the
RIOHD.SYS driver.

Driver installation varies among various versions of Windows so these
instructions are deliberately a little vague... :)

In order to install the driver on a machine which already has the old
driver you will need to run Device Manager (accessible by right clicking
on My Computer and selecting Properties). You should select the properties
for the "Rio Car" or "empeg-car" device and choose to Update Driver.
Choose to install the driver from a specific location and point it at
wherever you've unzipped the emplode installer.

To install the driver on a machine that has not seen the device before you
should choose to specify the location and point it at wherever you've
unzipped the emplode installer.

Once the driver is installed you should be able to check the driver details.
On Windows XP it should show that you are using RIOXDRV.SYS and on older
operating systems it should show that you are using RIOHD.SYS.

Although the RIOXDRV.SYS driver has been through WHQL testing it has not yet
been signed by Microsoft. On Windows XP you will be presented with a scary
dialog box that warns you that the driver is unsigned; you should choose to
continue installation.

Now proceed with installation of the firmware.

Connect your computer to your empeg car using the supplied serial cable.
Switch off your player at the wall or unplug the IEC cable from the brick
power supply.

The upgrade can be installed by serial only.  Run the Upgrade Wizard and
either enter or browse for the upgrade file. Click Next and select the
serial port that your unit is connected to. Click Next again.

When instructed to do so by the upgrade program re-apply power to your
player by switching it on at the wall or connecting the IEC cable and brick
power supply. If you have an all-in-one power supply then switch it on at
the wall if possible or plug into the wall. The upgrade should then be
applied. If it fails, try again.


* What's New Since 2.00 - Player

The kernel and player will now take advantage of extra bonus RAM
beyond the standard amount (8Mb Mark 1, 12Mb Mark 2, 16Mb Mark 2a) if
present. Fitting bonus RAM requires precision hand-soldering of
surface-mount components and is not for the even slightly
faint-hearted! Several brave souls who have performed upgrades have
posted to the Unofficial Empeg BBS in this thread:
    http://empegbbs.com/ubbthreads/showflat.php/Cat/0/Number/195118

The kernel changes were done by Mark Lord and originally came from his
"Hijack" replacement kernel project.


Peter Hartley 10-Jul-2004
pdhartley@rioaudio.com
