empeg-car software beta 11d release.

* Versions:

empeg-car player 0.91
emplode          0.89 (beta 11b)
empegUpgrade	 0.89 (beta 11b)
emptool		 0.90
kernel           2.2.14-rmk5-np17-empeg27

* Notes

*  General

This release is only appropriate for Mark II owners. There is no new Mark I 
functionality in the release and images suitable for a Mark I player have
been built.

When submitting bug reports to bugs@empeg.com please put each bug in a
separate email - this helps us to classify bugs and to archive the reports
when the bugs have been fixed.

Release notes are not cumulative. If you are upgrading by more than one
release then please read each set of release notes. These are available at
http://www2.empeg.com/upgrades/test/all_notes.html

You should not run this version of the player with an earlier release of
emplode or this version of emplode with an earlier release of the player.

*  Installation

Download either the consumer or developer images and emplode (or emptool)
from the empeg-car upgrades site.

You should install the new emplode or emptool before installing this
release. If you fail to do so your empeg-car unit will not function and it
will be necessary to apply the upgrade again using the correct version of
empegUpgrade or upgclient.

Connect your computer to your empeg car using the supplied serial
cable. Switch off your player at the wall, if this is not possible, unplug
the IEC cable from the brick power supply.

The upgrade can be installed by serial only. Select Upgrade empeg-car
software from the Tools menu and either enter or browse for the upgrade
file. Click Next and select the serial port that your unit is connected
to. Click Next again.

When instructed to do so by the upgrade program re-apply power to your
player by switching it on at the wall or connecting the IEC cable and brick 
power supply. The upgrade should then be applied.

* Changes:

*  player:

It is now possible to set the real time clock on the player. Setting it
correctly should ensure that disk integrity checking is not performed on
every synchronise.

Various synchronisation problems that affected two drive systems have been
resolved.

IP address selection using DHCP should now work correctly.

*  emplode:

emplode has not been updated in this release.

*  empegUpgrade:

empegUpgrade has not been updated in this release.

*  emptool

Many improvements have been made to renaming and moving items.

*  developer

* Known bugs:

The empeg hangs if connected via USB to a machine that is switched
off. Removing the USB cable fixes the problem.

The emplode install program doesn't restart the computer when necessary to
ensure that the empeg-car device is found. This is not always essential.

The emplode program doesn't check whether files are valid MP3 files before
downloading.

The same PIN may be entered for more than one tune/playlist - the empeg-car
will play the first one it finds.

Plugging more than empeg-car into a single machine via USB may confuse
emplode.

It is not currently possible to play WAV files on the unit.

Mike Crowe 2000/07/04 16:00 BST
mac@empeg.com
