empeg-car software beta 12 release.

* Versions:

empeg-car player 0.92
emplode          0.92
empegUpgrade	 0.92
emptool		 0.92
kernel           2.2.14-rmk5-np17-empeg29

* Notes

*  General

This release is appropriate for both Mark I and Mark II players.

When submitting bug reports to bugs@empeg.com please put each bug in a
separate email - this helps us to classify bugs and to archive the reports
when the bugs have been fixed.

Release notes are not cumulative. If you are upgrading by more than one
release then please read each set of release notes. These are available at
http://www2.empeg.com/upgrades/test/all_notes.html

You should not run this version of the player with an earlier release of
emplode or this version of emplode with an earlier release of the player.

*  Installation

Download either the consumer or developer images and emplode (or emptool)
from the empeg-car upgrades site.

You should install the new emplode or emptool before installing this
release. If you fail to do so your empeg-car unit will not function and it
will be necessary to apply the upgrade again using the correct version of
empegUpgrade or upgclient.

Connect your computer to your empeg car using the supplied serial
cable. Switch off your player at the wall, if this is not possible, unplug
the IEC cable from the brick power supply.

The upgrade can be installed by serial only. Select Upgrade empeg-car
software from the Tools menu and either enter or browse for the upgrade
file. Click Next and select the serial port that your unit is connected
to. Click Next again.

When instructed to do so by the upgrade program re-apply power to your
player by switching it on at the wall or connecting the IEC cable and brick 
power supply. The upgrade should then be applied.

* Changes:

*  player:

The loudness menu has been reinstated.

The rotary control now accelerates when used on gauges (volume, balance,
fader, etc.)

The disk is no longer spun up before the unit is powered down due to the
accessory line going low.

Work has been done that should address the hanging audio problems whereby
the visual would continue but the audio would stop.

*  emplode:

It is now possible for emplode to find players automatically on the local
network. It will communicate with the first one it finds - there is
currently no mechanism for selecting between multiple units on ethernet.

An early version of the online help is included. It is not complete.

It is now possible to enable/disable the disk spinning icon from within
emplode.

It is now possible to enable/disable the visual name prompts from within
emplode.

Once synchronisation is in progress it is now possible to request that the
player will be powered off once synchronisation is complete.

It is no longer possible to run multiple instances of emplode.

*  empegUpgrade:

empegUpgrade has not been updated in this release.

* empegClone:

The user interface has been improved.

The error reporting is now much better.

*  emptool

Many improvements have been made to renaming and moving items.

*  developer

It is now possible to add a Quit item to the player menu by placing an
entry of quit=1 in section [menu] of /empeg/var/config.ini.

* Known bugs:

The empeg hangs if connected via USB to a machine that is switched
off. Removing the USB cable fixes the problem.

The emplode install program doesn't restart the computer when necessary to
ensure that the empeg-car device is found. This is not always essential.

The emplode program doesn't check whether files are valid MP3 files before
downloading.

The same PIN may be entered for more than one tune/playlist - the empeg-car
will play the first one it finds.

Plugging more than empeg-car into a single machine via USB may confuse
emplode.

It is not currently possible to play WAV files on the unit.

Mike Crowe 2000/07/15 18:15 BST
mac@empeg.com
