empeg-car software version one release candidate one.

* Versions:

empeg-car player 0.96
emplode          0.96
empegUpgrade	 0.96
emptool		 0.96.1
kernel           2.2.14-rmk5-np17-empeg35

* Notes

*  General

This release is appropriate for both Mark I and Mark II players.

When submitting bug reports to bugs@empeg.com please put each bug in a
separate email - this helps us to classify bugs and to archive the reports
when the bugs have been fixed.

Release notes are not cumulative. If you are upgrading by more than one
release then please read each set of release notes. These are available in
the support/downloads/empeg car documentation section of the website at
http://www.empeg.com/

You should not run this version of the player with an earlier release of
emplode or this version of emplode with an earlier release of the player.

*  Installation

Download either the consumer or developer images and emplode (or emptool)
from the empeg-car upgrades site.

You should install the new emplode or emptool before installing this
release. If you fail to do so your empeg-car unit will not function and it
will be necessary to apply the upgrade again using the correct version of
empegUpgrade or upgclient.

Connect your computer to your empeg car using the supplied serial
cable. Switch off your player at the wall, if this is not possible, unplug
the IEC cable from the brick power supply.

The upgrade can be installed by serial only. Select Upgrade empeg-car
software from the Tools menu and either enter or browse for the upgrade
file. Click Next and select the serial port that your unit is connected
to. Click Next again.

When instructed to do so by the upgrade program re-apply power to your
player by switching it on at the wall or connecting the IEC cable and brick 
power supply. The upgrade should then be applied.

* Changes:

*  player:

The amount of caching performed for subsequent tracks has been increased to 
cope with the longer spinup times of two drive systems with particular
combinations of drives.

A bug which very occasionally caused silent gaps in playback has been
fixed.

Menus no longer wrap if they fit entirely on screen.

*   Mark I specific:

The Playlist menu is no longer visible in radio mode. Instead a radio menu
is displayed which allows preset selection.

*   Mark II specific:

The amount of memory devoted to caching has been increased slightly.

*  emplode:

Files without .mp2 or .mp3 extensions are now ignored when pasted or
dropped into a playlist.

*  empegUpgrade:

The last upgrade file is now remembered so that the correct folder can be
displayed when browse is pressed.

* empegClone:

empegClone has not been updated in this release.

*  emptool

Various bug fixes. Source is now available.

Other bug fixes.

*  developer

The player binary included in the developer image is no longer a debug build.

* Known bugs:

The empeg hangs if connected via USB to a machine that is switched
off. Removing the USB cable fixes the problem.

The emplode install program doesn't restart the computer when necessary to
ensure that the empeg-car device is found. This is not always essential.

The emplode program doesn't check whether files are valid MP3 files before
downloading.

The same PIN may be entered for more than one tune/playlist - the empeg-car
will play the first one it finds.

It is not currently possible to play WAV files on the unit.

Mike Crowe 2000/08/03 14:54 BST
mac@empeg.com
