Rio Car Alpha Release 25-Jul-2005
Version 3.00-alpha11

Copyright (c) Digital Networks North America, Inc. 2003, 2004, 2005


* Notes

This is a Rio Car Alpha Release. This release may not be stable, and is
for Empeg Mark 2 and Rio Car hardware only.

Those who value stability over excitement should steer well clear of
this version, in favour of the v2.00 release. On the other hand, many
people do use these alphas on their main players on a daily basis
without significant problems; your mileage may vary.


* General

This release comprises three different versions of the car-player
software:

  * Standard Edition (car2-*-v3.00-alpha11.upgrade)
  
    This is the successor to v3.00-alpha10, and is the one most users
    should install.
    
  * Japanese Edition (car2-*-v3.00JE-alpha11.upgrade)

    This build contains glyphs for the JIS X0208 subset of Japanese
    characters, in the larger font only. Because of this, the menus
    and the "Info: Track" screen have been changed in the Japanese
    edition to use only the larger font. Due to the increased size
    of the font data, this edition is recommended for 16Mb (and
    above) players only.
    
  * Receiver Edition (car2-*-v3.00RE-alpha11.upgrade)
  
    This build turns your car-player into a Rio Receiver-like home
    audio player, capable only of playing audio content from a network
    server, not from its own hard disks. You will need Rio Receiver
    server software running somewhere on your network. Consult the
    release notes for alpha 8 Receiver Edition for more details.

As always, the Unofficial Empeg BBS at http://empegbbs.com is a good
place for discussing this alpha, or the car-player in general, or indeed
life in general.


* Installation

You should install the new emplode before installing this release. If
you fail to do so your car-player unit may not function and it will be
necessary to apply the upgrade again using the correct version of
empegUpgrade or upgclient.

This release contains an interim Emplode build, which does not yet
have an installer.  Install the v2.00 version of Emplode, unzip the
new executable and library to another folder, and execute from there.

Now proceed with installation of the firmware.

Connect your computer to your car-player using the supplied serial
cable.  Switch off your player at the wall or unplug the IEC cable
from the brick power supply.

The upgrade can be installed by serial only. Run the Upgrade Wizard
and either enter or browse for the upgrade file. Click Next and select
the serial port that your unit is connected to. Click Next again.

When instructed to do so by the upgrade program re-apply power to your
player by switching it on at the wall or connecting the IEC cable and
brick power supply. If you have an all-in-one power supply then switch
it on at the wall if possible, or plug into the wall. The upgrade
should then be applied. If it fails, try again.


* What's New Since 3.00-alpha10 - Player

Reading the dynamic database has been speeded-up.

A bug whereby the player would lose its running-order when Tweak
Order failed to find a match, is fixed.

Beeps (Menu, Sound->Beeps) now work again.

The player no longer marks tracks for attention under its own
initiative just because their calculated length is incorrect.

The glyphs for characters U+00D8 LATIN CAPITAL LETTER O WITH STROKE
and U+03CC GREEK SMALL LETTER OMICRON WITH TONOS in the large font
have been corrected.

In "Info: Track" and "Info: Now & Next" modes, in addition to the
letter "s" to indicate shuffle mode, and "r" for repeat mode, you
get a letter "l" while playing lossless (FLAC and WAV) content.

A crash on certain MP3 files (those with a Xing header containing
no TOC) is fixed.

Previous alphas, when they detected a player with a memory upgrade
installed, reserved 64K per megabyte to allow for increased system
overhead due to the larger memory size. There is anecdotal evidence
that this isn't enough, so alpha 11 reserves 128K per megabyte. This
reservation is added to any specified in the config.ini file.
Symptoms of memory exhaustion range from sluggishness to audio
glitching to outright crashes.

Key-presses can now be queued-up in the search screens.

The feature that allows disabling of the "Plays" counter display
in the "Info: Track" mode has been backported from the v2 branch.
(In your /empeg/var/config.ini file, add "play_count=0" to the
"[display]" section.) The display is disabled in the Japanese
Edition due to the changes made in the "Info: Track" screen; to
see the play count, use the "Track Details" window (hold down
Info on the remote control).

Manual tuner scan mode (hold down left or right button) has been
fixed. (We'd all forgotten how it was meant to work, so we had to
look in the Button Guide on www.riocar.org.)

Tuner AF can be turned off properly now. (Hopefully. We haven't
been able to test it thoroughly.)

The following tuner settings can be tweaked in the config file, in
the "[radio]" section:
  "search_level", defaults to ((60*65535)/100)
  	- min signal strength to stop on when seeking
  "ta_switch_level", defaults to ((60*65535)/100)
  	- min signal strength to change to if there's a TA
  "af_switch_level", defaults to ((50*65535)/100)
  	- min signal strength to consider retune for AF


* What's New Since 2.10 - Emplode

No new release.


* What's New Since 3.00-alpha1 - Emptool

No new release.


* Known Issues

Probably doesn't work on Mark 1 players (untested).

The giant font used in InfoTex and related visuals is Latin-1 only and
does not correctly display accented characters, Greek, or Cyrillic.

The "Toilet Floor" visual was unstable in testing and has been
temporarily removed for this release.

Reportedly, using the search features can cause audio glitching. This
has yet to be addressed.

Long bursts of fast-forwarding or rewinding can cause a lockup.

Searching doesn't work properly for accented characters, Greek, or
Cyrillic.

Although Emplode 2.10 will correctly transfer ID3 and other tags
containing characters above U+00FF, including Greek and Cyrillic, such
characters don't appear correctly in Emplode's own UI.


Peter Hartley, 2005-Jul-25
peter@empeg.com
